
                        DURAK, a card game
  by GuPH                                          http://guph.8m.com

  WTF:

  It's a well known (in Russia anyway) Russian game of cards..  It is very
  simple and very playable (which is why I made a computer able to play it in
  this prog).  Durak in Russian means Stupid, and the way it goes is the
  person that loses, is a Stupid :)..  Of course this is one way to see whos
  dumber, human or machine ;).

  Set the cheat variable (search for it :P) to 1 to see your oponnents cards.
  This of course is no fun, so use it only if youre new to the game and you
  want to see how it works (and you've read the below stuff and still didn't
  understand it...  then youre a durak, but what can I say :)

  RULES:

  Not all cards are used of the 52 card deck..  Only 36 cards (6 through ACE,
  all suits) are used.

  Cards are ranked by face.  The higher the face of the card, the higher its
  rank.  Suit doesn't matter as far as ranking goes except for the wildcard
  (explained next).

  The players are dealt 6 cards each, the remaining put aside, with the
  topmost card of the deck from the remaining 24 (36-6*2) cards is put
  underneath the deck face up.  This is the wildcard, the suit of this card
  is the strongest (all other suits are equal amongst themselves).  (The
  dealing is done automatically by the program.)

  For example, if Diamonds is the wildcard, a Jack of Spades is stronger than
  a 10 of Spades, but a Six of Diamonds is strongest of the three.  In the
  same manner, a Seven of Diamonds is stronger of the four.  The strongest
  card of the whole deck is a wildcard ace.

  During a turn, the player can be either attacking or defending.  When the
  player is attacking, when it's his turn, he starts out by putting down a
  random card.  The defender retaliates by putting down a stronger card (a
  wildcard, or a card of the same suit and higher face).  The defender's card
  must be of the same suit unless its a wildcard.  If the attacker puts down
  a wildcard, the defender can only defend with the same kind of card (but
  higher face).  (Scroll down to see instructions below on how to use the
  keyboard to attack and defend.)

  Once defeated, the attacker can attack with another card, as long as its
  face is the same one as the previous attack or defend card(s), and as long
  as no more than 6 pairs of attack/defeat cards have been used.  (So if a
  defender can hold off a 6 card attack, or if the attacker has no more cards
  of the same face as the play cards, its the defenders turn)

  For example, say the wildcard is Diamonds, I attack with a 10 of Spades and
  the defender defends with a Jack of Spades, now I can put down any kind of
  a 10 or a Jack (no matter the suit).  If I have no such cards it is now the
  defenders turn to attack.

  If the defender has no cards that can outmach the attackers card, he takes
  the card that he can't outmach, as well as any other cards that he
  previously defended in this turn (along with all the cards he put down to
  defend them too).

  (So if a defender defends a 5 card attack, and on the sixth card he cant
  defend (that sucks! :) he takes allll 11 play cards (5*2 + 1))

  When turns change, the players can refill their cards.  If a player's card
  count is below 6, he must take as many cards as he needs to refill his
  cards up to 6.  He can't refill if his card count is more or equal to 6.
  If the deck runs out of cards (the bottom card must also be used as (the
  last) refill card), then the game is close to an end.  (Refilling is done
  automatically by the program.)

  The first person to run out of cards, with no deck remaining to refill
  from, wins, and the loser is a... Durak!! :)

  STRATEGIES:

  When you are attacking, use a cheap, weak, "dispendable" card to start.
  You want to leave your wildcards and strong cards for that dark moment when
  the attacker is on a killing spree.  If you see a chain attack involving
  wildcards that can force the defender to take the play cards, then it is up
  to you.

  When defending use the lowest rank card that can still defend the attacking
  card.  So if the attacker puts down an 8 of Spades, and you have a 10 of
  Spades and a Jack of Spades, it is better to put down the 10 instead of
  a Jack. (It really doesn't matter, because you have both the Jack and a 10,
  and they can defeat all the Spades below them, but if it was, for example,
  a Queen and a 10, then the Queen could defeat a future attack with a Jack,
  but a 10 cant!)

  When you must, take the card.  If you can defend a weak card, but at a high
  price, the best bet is not to do it.  For example, again the wildcards are
  Diamonds, and you are attacked with a Six of Spades.  You have no Spades,
  and the only wildcard you have is a King of Diamonds.  Do you really want
  to waste such a powerful card on a miniscule Six of Spades?  Didn't think
  so :)

  Try and see what suits your oponnent can't defend.  For example, if you
  give him a 6 of Spades, and he immediately takes it, he probably has no
  Spades (except that 6, hehe).  Just bombard him with any Spades you have
  in increasing rank, so he takes them all.  It could also be that he didnt
  want to use a wildcard on that 6 of Spades, but you can still sneak in a
  few cards before he starts defending (just expect those cards to make a
  comeback appearance once he starts attacking).

  The ending is the most important part of the game (when the deck is used
  up).  I've seen people with almost all wildcards lose because the oponnent
  was smarter than them (and thus, not a Durak :).  There are many strategies
  to play in the end.  One is to attack in pairs, and increasing in rank;
  there are many more.

  If you are an avid card player, you would have remembered the cards played
  and should know most of his cards...

  INSTRUCTIONS:

  Use the LEFT/RIGHT arrow keys, to select a card.  Use PGUP/PGDN to scroll
  through all of your cards, if you took any more than 6 they would be in the
  7 to 12 slots, so press PGUP to see those, then press PGDN to go back to
  1 to 6 slots.  (This way you can see how many cards ur oponnent has too).
  Press the DOWN arrow to select a card, either for defending or attacking.
  Press ESC to end a turn, if you are attacking, you will stop (probably
  because you have no other cards to attack with).  If you are defending, and
  you press ESC you will take all the cards (because you have no cards to
  defend with, right? :)..  (Otherwise, the turn can be ended, when the
  computer takes, or stops attacking, as he will see fit :)

  To quit press F10, or play the game to the end press "N".

  The display shows, on the top, YOUR cards, on the bottom, COMPUTER's cards,
  on the right the player cards from # to #, in the middle, the PLAY cards,
  and on the left the deck cards (if any).  The number on the deck cards is
  the number of cards left in the deck (including the bottom-most card, the
  one face up).

  BLABLA:

  There are many forms of Durak games, including more than two player, games
  where you can forward and add to attack cards, and et cetera..  The game
  implemented in this program is as genuine a Durak game as I could get into
  it..  The only thing thats not right is you can't tie..  That could be
  implemented I guess, but blah :)

  The AI level is currently is very weak..  Thing is I just wanted to get it
  working first.  I might make it smarter..  Might not :)

  Hey, its a ton better than solitaire ;)  or is it?
